README.MD, before:

# 📊 Master TFM: Advanced Time Series Analysis Project 🚀

Welcome to the Master TFM project! This project focuses on analyzing time series data using state-of-the-art machine learning and deep learning models. With this analysis, we aim to extract valuable insights from complex datasets, specifically focusing on energy consumption trends and patterns. Our project covers a wide array of models, such as CNN, LSTM, XGBoost, and SARIMAX.

## 📑 Dataset

The primary dataset we’re working with is the Open Power System Data. You can access the full dataset used in this analysis here. This dataset includes 60-minute interval time series data for power system usage across different regions.

The data is processed and analyzed using powerful Python libraries such as:

• `pandas` for data manipulation
• `scikit-learn` for machine learning models
• `TensorFlow` and `Keras` for deep learning (CNN, LSTM)
• `XGBoost` for gradient boosting models
• `SARIMAX` for statistical time series forecasting
• `numpy` for numerical computations
• `matplotlib` and seaborn for data visualization

## 🚀 Objectives

•Implement multiple machine learning and deep learning models to analyze the time series dataset.
• Explore patterns and trends in energy consumption.
• Compare the performance of different models and optimize them for better accuracy.

## 🛠️ Project Setup

### Requirements

Follow the steps below to install and set up the project.

- Python 3.11
- [Poetry](https://python-poetry.org/docs/#installation) for dependency management
- `Make` (Makefile) for running project scripts

## Installation

### Installing Make

#### macOS

Make is typically pre-installed on macOS. If it's missing, you can install it via Xcode Command Line Tools:

```bash
xcode-select --install
```

Alternatively, you can use Homebrew:

```bash
brew install make
```

#### Linux

Most Linux distributions come with Make pre-installed. If it's missing, you can install it using your package manager. For example, on Ubuntu:

```bash
sudo apt-get install build-essential
```

#### Windows

To use Make on Windows, you can install it via Chocolatey or use a Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL):

Using Chocolatey:

Install Chocolatey if you haven't already: https://chocolatey.org/install

Install Make:

bash

```powershell
choco install make
```

Using WSL:

Install WSL: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install
Use the Linux instructions above once WSL is installed.

1. Clone the repository:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-username/master-tfm.git
   cd master-tfm
   ```

2. Install dependencies:

   ```bash
   poetry install
   ```

3. Activate the virtual environment:

   ```bash
   poetry config virtualenvs.in-project true && poetry shell
   ```

4. Generate the `requirements.txt` and `requirements-dev.txt` files:

   ```bash
   make generate_requirements_with_poetry
   ```

### Using requirements-dev.txt

1. Clone the repository:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-username/master-tfm.git
   cd master-tfm
   ```

2. Create and activate a virtual environment in `.venv`:

   ```bash
   python -m venv .venv
   source .venv/bin/activate
   ```

3. Install the development dependencies:

   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements-dev.txt
   ```

4. Generate the `requirements.txt` and `requirements-dev.txt` files:

   ```bash
   make generate_requirements
   ```

## Usage

After activating the virtual environment and installing all dependencies, you can start working on your project.

## Available Scripts

You can use the following commands to generate the `requirements.txt` files and activate the virtual environment:

```bash
make generate_requirements
```

## Downloading Data with initialize.py

To download the necessary data for this project, you need to run the initialize.py script, which is set up to download data automatically. Depending on your environment, you can do it in several ways:

```bash
poetry run download-data
```

On Linux/macOS (using a shell script):

```bash
./initialize.py
```

On Windows:
With PowerShell:

```powershell
./initialize.ps1
```

```cmd
initialize.cmd
```

Commit message:

Update README to enhance project setup instructions and add conclusion section

README.MD, after:

# 📊 Master TFM: Advanced Time Series Analysis Project 🚀

Welcome to the Master TFM project! This project focuses on analyzing time series data using state-of-the-art machine learning and deep learning models. With this analysis, we aim to extract valuable insights from complex datasets, specifically focusing on energy consumption trends and patterns. Our project covers a wide array of models, such as CNN, LSTM, XGBoost, and SARIMAX.

## 📑 Dataset

The primary dataset we’re working with is the Open Power System Data. You can access the full dataset used in this analysis here. This dataset includes 60-minute interval time series data for power system usage across different regions.

The data is processed and analyzed using powerful Python libraries such as:

• `pandas` for data manipulation
• `scikit-learn` for machine learning models
• `TensorFlow` and `Keras` for deep learning (CNN, LSTM)
• `XGBoost` for gradient boosting models
• `SARIMAX` for statistical time series forecasting
• `numpy` for numerical computations
• `matplotlib` and seaborn for data visualization

## 🚀 Objectives

•Implement multiple machine learning and deep learning models to analyze the time series dataset.
• Explore patterns and trends in energy consumption.
• Compare the performance of different models and optimize them for better accuracy.

## 🛠️ Project Setup

Follow the steps below to install and set up the project.

### Requirements

- `Python 3.11`
- [Poetry](https://python-poetry.org/docs/#installation) for dependency management
- `Make` (Makefile) for running project scripts

## Installation

### Installing Make

#### macOS

Make is typically pre-installed on macOS. If it's missing, you can install it via Xcode Command Line Tools:

```bash
xcode-select --install
```

Alternatively, you can use Homebrew:

```bash
brew install make
```

#### Linux

Most Linux distributions come with Make pre-installed. If it's missing, you can install it using your package manager. For example, on Ubuntu:

```bash
sudo apt-get install build-essential
```

#### Windows

To use Make on Windows, you can install it via Chocolatey or use a Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL):

Using Chocolatey:

Install Chocolatey if you haven't already: https://chocolatey.org/install

Install Make:

bash

```powershell
choco install make
```

Using WSL:

Install WSL: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install
Use the Linux instructions above once WSL is installed.

1. Clone the repository:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-username/master-tfm.git
   cd master-tfm
   ```

2. Install dependencies:

   ```bash
   poetry install
   ```

3. Activate the virtual environment:

   ```bash
   poetry config virtualenvs.in-project true && poetry shell
   ```

4. Generate the `requirements.txt` and `requirements-dev.txt` files:

   ```bash
   make generate_requirements_with_poetry
   ```

### Using requirements-dev.txt

1. Clone the repository:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-username/master-tfm.git
   cd master-tfm
   ```

2. Create and activate a virtual environment in `.venv`:

   ```bash
   python -m venv .venv
   source .venv/bin/activate
   ```

3. Install the development dependencies:

   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements-dev.txt
   ```

4. Generate the `requirements.txt` and `requirements-dev.txt` files:

   ```bash
   make generate_requirements
   ```

## Usage

After activating the virtual environment and installing all dependencies, you can start working on your project.

## Available Scripts

You can use the following commands to generate the `requirements.txt` files and activate the virtual environment:

```bash
make generate_requirements
```

## 📊 Model Training and Data Analysis

To download the dataset and initialize the project for analysis:

You need to run the initialize.py script, which is set up to download data automatically. Depending on your environment, you can do it in several ways:

```bash
poetry run download-data
```

On Linux/macOS (using a shell script):

```bash
./initialize.py
```

On Windows:
With PowerShell:

```powershell
./initialize.ps1
```

```cmd
initialize.cmd
```

🎯 Conclusion

With this project, we aim to demonstrate the power of advanced machine learning and deep learning models applied to real-world time series data. From statistical models like SARIMAX to cutting-edge deep learning architectures such as CNN and LSTM, this project serves as a comprehensive toolkit for time series forecasting and analysis.

Let me know if you want to tweak anything or add additional details!
